jump in shade's on start the ignition
seat belt check phone in the charger
of course but stop right there the usb
ports in modern cars usually have
less electricity than today's
smartphones need meaning
your phone will juice up at a snail's
pace or maybe not at all
especially if you're using it say for
navigation that
or your super smart power hungry device
will try to drink up electricity faster
than the port can handle
if you use the 12 volt lighter port you
can get the opposite situation
an adapter that malfunctions won't do
its job of converting that power flow
too much voltage can go into your phone
before you know it
your little digital buddy is toast uh-oh
another thing about car charging is that
most of us let's admit it
use cheap gas station chargers when you
don't use the manufacturers
you risk damaging your battery or even
frying your device
if you're still not convinced there's
this a completely drained phone
pulls about two percent of a car
batteries juice
not a big deal but hey that can add up
and if anything
it comes down to personal safety when
you're driving
loose items lying around your car or in
someone's hands
can turn into dangerous projectiles your
phone tablet
coffee tumbler you name it when you're
going highway speeds and come to a
sudden
unexpected stop those items continue to
go highway speeds
if they hit you going that fast well you
get it
literally secure your stuff or keep it
all in the trunk
your car is a bad idea a rental is a 100
percent no go
the usb port is basically public there
so
think about cyber security to make your
charge safer
you can either use your own adapter or
wait until you find a safe plug
okay you travel other ways but don't
charge your phone at a train station
or those usb hubs and airports either
ever heard of juice jacking nah they
don't swipe your orange juice while
you're not looking
your data can be extracted via usb port
the battery's full but your phone's also
full of malware
and your personal data got copied
charging at a public hub can even let
bad guys remotely turn your camera or
microphone on
hey say something smart same goes for
cafes
but here most of us charge on the laptop
you get the same problem as in the car
your phone will try to drink too much
but smartphones are called smart for a
reason
they'll purposely take less knowing
there's other data using the same power
source
bottom line it'll take forever and a day
to charge up
well the only traveling i do is to the
mall to shop
okay but it's still not a good place to
plug your phone in
a lot of these scams operate in crowded
malls they steal your banking
information
and then go shopping too
yes your home electric sockets are the
safest place for charging
but avoid it during a thunderstorm
lightning striking near an electrical
pole can send
a tsunami of power through the lines and
into your sockets
you get a serving of phone toast once
again
the house is usually good the bedroom is
not
what i mean is charging your phone near
your bed can be
hazardous if the cable is worn out or
faulty
it can cause a fire or if you're like me
worried about not hearing the alarm so
you put the phone right on the bed with
you
not good if the pillow gets on it the
phone can overheat and catch on fire
and phones more specifically their blue
screens are sleep steelers
i know you'll still fall asleep to
youtube videos because i do too
but if you don't want to wake up to a
drained battery
since you can't charge near the bed just
set a timer for your multimedia
it's the stop playing option and it lets
you choose how long you want something
to play
before it turns off automatically
speaking of fires
there's a myth that phones can cause
them at a gas station
gas is extremely flammable but to start
a fire
you need at least a spark static
electricity or matches can do that
a phone even a faulting one not likely
they put no cell phone signs up at gas
stations to prevent
cell distracted drivers from forgetting
the nozzle in their tank
and ripping the thing off the pump when
they drive away
oh you who forget something another
common myth
is that you can save a soaked phone by
putting it in a bowl of uncooked rice
rice absorbs water just like any other
grain but it only does that when it
comes in direct contact with the water
if the phone's wet on the inside rice
won't help
it can actually corrode your device if
the starch works its way in through the
cracks and ports
so that's a no for the smartphone sushi
the hairdryer is no option either
use silica gel packets instead and don't
believe a shop assistant telling you
your phone can ruin your bank card
they just want you to buy a card holder
since they earn more from
upselling accessories any plastic card
is composed of millions of microscopic
magnetic particles that magnetic stripe
is hard to demagnetize since it's slim
phones aren't powerful enough to do that
it's also not true
that you can be tracked by your sim card
tracking is all about the imei number
any phone has it's transmitted to the
nearest cell tower
and gives you away a sim card can't
track you
but your iphone does at least it keeps
tabs of all the places you like to visit
to check it go to settings privacy
location services
and system services it'll be in frequent
locations
android devices do the same under
location history
in google maps geolocation apps are also
infamous for eating up all the charge
keep those off and make sure you have
the camera closed
and the fewest app alerts on to save
some energy
otherwise you might need an emergency
stop at some unsafe public hub
oh by the way if there's no explanation
why your phone goes through its charge
so fast
consider cyber security it could be a
red flag that your phone's been hacked
and someone else is using it too could
be watching or
listening to you rumor has it that 4g
uses more data than 3g
the pages you load are the same no
matter which g you're on
right the latter is way faster but it's
like eating a burger
if i gulp mine down more quickly than
you it's a question of
speed not the size of the burger same
goes for 5g too
gosh now i'm hungry there is something
you can do to control data usage
turn off the apps that hog it turn off
automatic file uploading to any
of your clouds get rid of all the
automatic updates
if you want some music or a podcast
download it beforehand
streaming chugs your data too oh yeah
and you can take pictures without enough
memory
if your storage is full and you need to
snap a pic
open one of your social media apps take
a photo when you start a new post
the pic will be in your camera roll hey